So what I'd like to do in this video is take a quick tour or walk through of the syllabus.
Talk about the curriculum what the Course covers and what it doesn't cover and at the same time it's
a good place to talk about prerequisites.
If there's any experience you need for this course in the short answer is no but there's a longer answer.
There are a couple of things that might be helpful.
So the way I'd like to do this rather than just talking to you sitting at my desk is to actually use
the magic of editing or a high tech fancy skills here and hop into the syllabus now and just go over
some of the details with you.
All right.
I'll see you there.
OK.
So I'm looking at the syllabus here.
There is currently 300 or so different lectures across 17 different sections and I won't waste your
time going over every single section.
I just want to point out some of the big trends and kind of where we're going based off of where we
are right now.
So the next section is really focused on setting the stage for what my ask is how it compares to other
databases what makes something a database what sequel compared to my as well.
And then we shift focus to installing.
So by the end of that section you'll have your own copy installed and then from there we really dive
into code.
We see how to create databases how to put data in there and then we focus a lot of time on how to get
data out.
How do we write complex queries and along the way there are dozens and dozens of exercises including
section 6 which consists entirely of challenges the crud exercise challenge or we spend a lot of time
working with one dataset in detail then we keep moving on basically working our way up towards more
complex queries asking more complex questions of our data.
So all of this contains things like aggregate functions learning about string functions learning how
to work with data and date Times had a sort our results.
And then also working with logical operators.
And if none of that means anything to you don't worry.
But if it does you're looking for it you'll find it in the syllabus and then we move on to the next
chunk of content which has to do with interrelated data with more complex data structures.
How do we represent them with my as well.
Or a sequel.
So if we start talking about Joines if you've heard of Joines before Section 12 and 13 focus on joints
and then in Section 14 we start working with our Instagram database Klym.
So what we'll do here is actually set out to come up with a clone of an instagram like database.
Obviously it won't be as complex as Instagram but we work with things like photos and users and comments
and likes and hashtags and followers and friends.
All that fun stuff.
So we'll set up our database here we'll design it and then Section 15 is all challenges using that Instagram
data.
So it sort of serves as a final exam to the course although not to test their solutions immediately
after but it sums up everything we've done until this point you'll have a bunch of data thousands and
thousands of rows of data that I'm going to provide you you'll put it in your database and then you'll
write code to answer a bunch of real world questions that someone or some company might have about the
data.
That's not the end of the course.
We move on at the end into kind of a broader section where we start talking about my Q Well plus other
languages.
So we see how to interact with node in my ask.
Well.
And then finally the course ends when we build a simple web application using my as well and no together.
So that's a rough overview of all that we cover.
One thing you might be wondering about are the prerequisites.
And I did say earlier that there are no prerequisites.
You don't have to have any experience aside from being able to work with the computer being able to
surf the Internet download things.
But I should note that towards the end while at the very end when we start talking about no J.S. and
building a web app it definitely will help if you're familiar with things like javascript edged him
out and C S S.
This isn't a course on those topics.
So I'm not sure I don't spend you know hours and hours going over them like I could.
However I do spend a little bit of time introducing them you know in a couple of minutes doing a crash
course but that's not the focus of this course.
So that's the only note I would add if you're here just for my as well.
And that's where you're concerned about there are no prerequisites.
But if you really want to be able to understand.
No genius at the end.
And the web app that we built it will help if you have a little bit of experience with it.
Tim Mounty assess in javascript.
Other than that though no prerequisites.